# STAT 451 Final Project

Some questions we are interested in for the final project are the general trends of chronic disease indicators across the years for different states and demographics.How and why are they changing? A particular question of interest is "how do chronic disease indicators and other health indicators (like physical and mental health) change across time for each region?" There are quite a few chronic disease indicators, so it would probably be best to focus on a few key ones that are more interesting (large fluctuations) or problematic (corresponding to higher mortality rate). It'll be important to note different key events that drastically skew certain numbers (e.g. COVID-19 pandemic). In other words, we're interested if we are doing a good job at promoting overall health and how does it change? The "U.S. Chronic Disease Indicators, 2023 Release" dataset provides a fairly holistic view of chronic disease indicators, following 124 different indicators across regions of the United States. Government initiatives and other major inflection points will be difficult to follow, but fractured state and national agencies should have records for the major ones (which are what we care about). Major events like the COVID-19 pandemic will be difficult to account for. However, we're only really interested in the general trends however, so too many specifics aren't really necessary. The dates recorded are usually annual in nature, so 1-2 important events are probably what we'll aim for. We may also end up needing more data for particular diseases of interest and other health parameters (e.g. depression statistics), however those are fairly available (especially for major problems like mental health). Some examples would be these links to data on [nutrition and physical activity](https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/nutrition-physical-activity-and-obesity-behavioral-risk-factor-surveillance-system) and the annual reports on [mental health and drug use](https://www.samhsa.gov/data/data-we-collect/nsduh-national-survey-drug-use-and-health). If we want to draw comparisons to worldwide trends, the WHO also have a large dataset for each year at the link [here](https://data.who.int/). The main dataset is quite large (350 mb), so I've provided a link to the data [here](https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/u-s-chronic-disease-indicators-cdi).

